# Project Kebe

## What is Project Kebe?

Project Kebe is an attempt to create an open source implementation of the Snap
store to use with Ubuntu (and other distributions) and Snapd. It is the umbrella
name for the effort. The kebe-store, kebe-dashboard and kebe-login being the
three main components that will make the effort.

## Who is welcome?

This is as important as all the code in this repository so I want to put it
here, near the beginning.

All are welcome but we will be a respectful community and treat
each other with dignity and respect. Discussions should be in that manner and
should focus on the merits of a given solution and not the person. We all have
preferences for how things are done and "better" is subjective in a lot of
instances.

## Why?

We think you should have the option to control your computer and your operating
system as you see fit. Snaps are a great distribution for applications and work
well. However without an open source implementation of the distribution
mechanism it's impossible for many people to fully embrace the echo system.

A single store is great for people that want it and the entity controlling the
single store.

If you don't fall into one of those two camps then it's a terrible echo system.

Also, we love Ubuntu and want to continue to use it the way we see fit.

## What does it do?

Not a lot at the moment. But with the proper setup (including a patched snapd)
you can host snaps, download them and even build and Ubuntu Core against
that store.

## What doesn't it do?

That list is too long to list. Pick something and then assume it doesn't do that
and then be pleasantly surprised when it does. :)

## Is it production ready?

No. Absolutely not. NO. Not even close.

## Will it ever be production ready?

Without help, unlikely or least not before the universe dies.

## What are its goals?

Eventually be a self-hosting stand-in for the Snap Store (possibly as defined by
  some very limited set of capability). Also to educate others about snaps,
snapd and its interactions with various remote systems that are not likewise
documented elsewhere.

## What about the tools?

The tools needed to make this work (snapcraft, ubuntu-image, etc) will likely
need at least minimal patching to make it work effortlessly.

It's possible there will be supplemental tools instead. Some have been worked on
in various stages.

## What are its anti-goals?

To work with snapd unmodified. This is unlikely to ever be the case unless
Canonical changes its mind.

## Where did the name come from? What does it mean?

Kebe is a shortening of kebebasan, the Bahasa Indonesian word for libery or freedom.

## Help improve this project and this README

Now accepting pull requests! :)
